DOC-2513: Categories can now be declared as `locked`, making them readonly. (#3467)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/7.4-release-notes.adoc

For information on the **<Premium plugin name 1>** plugin, see: xref:<plugincode>.adoc[<Premium plugin name 1>].

=== Templates

The {productname} {release-version} release includes an accompanying release of the **Templates** premium plugin.

**Templates** includes the following improvement.

==== Categories can now be declared as locked, making them readonly.
// #TINY-11116

include::partial$misc/admon-requires-7.4v.adoc[]

> The {productname} release introduces readonly image:icons/lock.svg[lock.svg] categories for improved template management. This feature allows administrators to lock down specific categories, ensuring they remain unaltered while providing clear visual cues for non-editable items.
> 
> === Key Features
> 
> - **Readonly Templates**: Templates assigned to readonly categories are automatically locked, preventing actions such as renaming, editing content, or moving templates between categories. These templates are marked with a lock image:icons/lock.svg[lock.svg] icon to indicate their status.
> - **Readonly Categories**: Categories can be marked as readonly by adding `locked: true` in the configuration. Once locked, categories cannot be modified, and users are prevented from adding or moving templates within these categories. A lock icon visually distinguishes readonly categories.
> - **Client-Side Restrictions**: Attempts to modify readonly templates or categories are blocked on the client side, and the UI reflects the readonly status to provide a seamless user experience.

Author: Updated commit with inclusion of @FarzadHayat edit suggestions.

```suggestion
The {productname} release introduces readonly categories for improved template management. This feature allows administrators to lock down specific template categories, preventing users from modifying the category or its templates.

=== Key Features

- **Readonly Templates**: Templates within readonly categories are locked, preventing the user from renaming, editing, moving, or deleting them. These templates are marked with a lock image:icons/lock.svg[lock.svg] icon to indicate their status.
- **Readonly Categories**: Categories can be marked as readonly by setting `locked: true` in the configuration. Once locked, categories cannot be renamed or deleted, and users are prevented from moving templates into or out of the category. A lock icon visually distinguishes readonly categories. Readonly categories are marked with a lock image:icons/lock.svg[lock.svg] icon to indicate their status.
- **Client-Side Restrictions**: Attempts to modify readonly categories are blocked on the client side, and the UI reflects the readonly status to provide a seamless user experience.
```

.Example: Locking a category
[source,js]
----
// Template data with locked category
{
  title: 'Locked Templates',
  locked: true, // Locks the category as readonly
  items: [
    {
      title: 'How to find model number',
      content: '<p dir="ltr">Hi {{Customer.FirstName}},</p>\n<p>...</p>'
    },
    {
      title: 'Support escalation',
      content: '<p dir="ltr">Hi {{Customer.FirstName}},</p>\n<p>...</p>'
    }
  ]
}
----

> For information on the **Templates** plugin, see: xref:advanced-templates.adoc#read-only-templates[Read-only Templates].

Author: ```suggestion
For information on the **Templates** plugin, see: xref:advanced-templates.adoc#read-only-categories[Read-only Categories].
```
